Caption: all right good morning everyone welcome
Caption: to Chuck on the goal the galar room and
Caption: I'm very pleased this morning to welcome
Caption: Aaron Zimmer
Caption: uh who's going to come and talk to us
Caption: about refactoring components and already
Caption: I love the talk with the refactor
Caption: tractor
Caption: Aaron is a Google developer expert with
Caption: over 15 years experience in a variety of
Caption: languages from JavaScript to model 204
Caption: which
Caption: apparently nobody else has ever heard of
Caption: anyway
Caption: she's currently a senior web developer
Caption: at Cash app an active community of the
Caption: Melbourne Dev community and has spoken
Caption: at conferences around the world if you
Caption: see her at a conference she'll probably
Caption: have knitting needles in hand so um
Caption: I'm sure we can find out a bit more
Caption: about that but uh everyone please give a
Caption: warm welcome to Aaron and refactoring
Caption: components
Caption: uh hi yeah so I originally called this
Caption: refactoring components and then one of
Caption: my co-workers pointed out that that was
Caption: pretty boring and I was missing out an
Caption: opportunity to go getting on the
Caption: refactor tractor so that's what we're
Caption: going with
Caption: um
Caption: my name is Erin I work for the company
Caption: formerly known as Square which is now
Caption: known as block and I specifically worked
Caption: building a product called Cash app which
Caption: you may not have heard of because it's
Caption: not currently available in Australia but
Caption: our aim is basically to fix the truly
Caption: atrocious situation that is the banking
Caption: sector in the US you think we've got
Caption: about here
Caption: um but we do have Offices here in
Caption: Australia and we are very remote
Caption: friendly so if you're looking for a
Caption: change maybe come have a chat
Caption: um like I said I will have my knitting
Caption: needles around I I'll be knitting socks
Caption: because
Caption: I decided for some reason I was going to
Caption: knit everyone's socks for Christmas
Caption: um so now I'm going to knit like 10
Caption: pairs of socks by the end of the year
Caption: and there's no like once no going back
Caption: from that yet right I'm stuck
Caption: um and if you would like to follow along
Caption: uh at home these slides are available at
Caption: refactortractor.ez.codes and they really
Caption: are there this time not like at the last
Caption: talk I gave
Caption: all right so today we're going to talk
Caption: about refactoring we're going to start
Caption: with factoring is and when we might want
Caption: to do it
Caption: um
Caption: that our refactoring happens safely
Caption: we're going to look at some additional
Caption: tools we've got available for working
Caption: with jsx
Caption: and we're going to do lots of live
Caption: examples because I like Living
Caption: Dangerously
Caption: all right so what is refactoring
Caption: refactoring is when we change the
Caption: implementation without changing the
Caption: functionality right so we're changing
Caption: the code but we're not changing what
Caption: what it does
Caption: there's a few reasons we might do that
Caption: and we might want to make the code
Caption: easier to understand we might want to
Caption: wait want to make it easier to test or
Caption: mostly we want to make it easier to
Caption: change
Caption: um so
Caption: some things that we might do while we're
Caption: refactoring are things like renaming
Caption: variables right maybe the variable names
Caption: we've got out of sync with what's
Caption: actually going on and the cut the code
Caption: is hard to understand rename the
Caption: variables make it a bit easier to
Caption: understand
Caption: we might take long functions and split
Caption: them up into smaller functions which
Caption: also makes the code easier to understand
Caption: because it's easier to reason about the
Caption: smaller pieces
Caption: as well as making it easier to test
Caption: because we can test the parts
Caption: independently
Caption: and we might do things like we've got
Caption: some repeated code we might Factor it
Caption: out so it's just in one place which
Caption: makes it easier to change right it's
Caption: going to we don't have to change it in
Caption: one place later
Caption: if you're interested in this kind of
Caption: nitty-gritty details of refactoring I
Caption: highly recommend that you check out
Caption: Martin Fowler's book refactoring um he's
Caption: got like a whole taxonomy there like the
Caption: different almost like the different
Caption: moves that you can make in refactoring
Caption: and like how to do them and all like
Caption: when you might want to do these
Caption: different things but we're not going to
Caption: get into quite that nitty-gritty detail
Caption: today
Caption: okay so now we know what refactoring is
Caption: when should we do it
Caption: um and my sort of cop-out answer is when
Caption: do benefits outweigh the costs
Caption: um I say that's a common answer because
Caption: that's when you do anything right when
Caption: the benefits
Caption: so what are the benefits and the costs
Caption: of refactoring
Caption: the benefits of refactoring uh most
Caption: importantly the biggest benefit you're
Caption: going to get from it is faster future
Caption: development right if you spend some time
Caption: refactoring your cards it's easier to
Caption: build change to build things change
Caption: things fix bugs later on that's a huge
Caption: benefit of refactoring
Caption: refactoring also often leads to less
Caption: bugs if we're making code that's easier
Caption: to test then it's easier to find the
Caption: bugs that we do put in there but also
Caption: for making a code easy to understand
Caption: we're less likely to put the bugs in
Caption: there in the first place
Caption: and finally refactor
Caption: but I get a real thrill out of um taking
Caption: some code that's a huge
Caption: a huge and cleaning it all up
Caption: um maybe that's just me I don't know
Caption: uh there are some costs though the
Caption: biggest cost of refactoring is time if
Caption: we spent a day refactoring our code and
Caption: that's a day that we're not spending
Caption: building new features or fixing existing
Caption: bugs right so we need to take that into
Caption: account we need to make sure that that
Caption: trade-off exists
Caption: and there's also some risks refactoring
Caption: so I found this delight Supply crew on
Caption: Twitter
Caption: by another person named Aaron I was
Caption: pretty happy to see
Caption: um and she says this code used to work
Caption: hey I should refactor it now it does not
Caption: work
Caption: which I found very relatable
Caption: um no she was a woman on Twitter so
Caption: obviously what she got was a bunch of
Caption: men telling her that uh she should just
Caption: have written about her tests
Caption: um which is easy to say but it can be
Caption: quite difficult right it's it's hard to
Caption: write tests for code when you don't know
Caption: what it was intending to do in the first
Caption: place right it's quite tricky to write
Caption: those tests and also when you are
Caption: writing those tests often you'll pick up
Caption: existing bugs in the code and sort of
Caption: you can't just go around fixing them
Caption: because often like if you've got bugs in
Caption: your code your users might have
Caption: workarounds that they've built to deal
Caption: with those bugs when you fix the bugs
Caption: you're going to break those workarounds
Caption: um the best sort of example I can think
Caption: of with really regards to that is
Caption: Internet Explorer which was basically
Caption: one big bug but
Caption: the way that it was written is Microsoft
Caption: had gone in and fixed all of the bugs in
Caption: Internet Explorer it would have broken
Caption: millions of websites around the world
Caption: right so
Caption: I.E had its issues but they their hands
Caption: were tied to some degree about the buggy
Caption: Behavior
Caption: okay
Caption: the code that I did not
Caption: comes from a code base that I was
Caption: working on last year it was in this
Caption: component it was like a huge component
Caption: like a thousand lines long there's a
Caption: favorite
Caption: and I was working in a different part of
Caption: that Improvement that this particular
Caption: function now I hate this function this
Caption: said to me immensely this should be like
Caption: three lines of code there is no need for
Caption: any of this
Caption: but it also was refactoring it like I
Caption: wasn't do you have a bit of code but
Caption: also works it's easy to understand
Caption: apart from the way that it annoys me
Caption: there's not really anything wrong with
Caption: it so I never didn't didn't touch it
Caption: resisted the urge as far as I know it's
Caption: still in the code base but I don't have
Caption: to look at it anymore
Caption: okay so as general I only reflect the
Caption: code if
Caption: I'm doing some change some other change
Caption: at the same time or someone else in my
Caption: team is doing some other change so that
Caption: has the advantage that first of all I
Caption: know that the refactor is going to be
Caption: worthwhile because it is going to speed
Caption: up the feature work that I'm doing but
Caption: also means that there's a bunch of
Caption: people with their eyes on this code at
Caption: the moment right the other people in my
Caption: team our product managers our designers
Caption: everyone's looking at
Caption: what's going on in this part of the code
Caption: base our users are expecting a change
Caption: anyway there's a better chance that if I
Caption: do accidentally break something or
Caption: accidentally fix something that
Caption: somebody's good somebody's going to
Caption: notice and we can deal with it
Caption: appropriately
Caption: we've sat down we've made our decision
Caption: and we've decided we're going to
Caption: refactor some code
Caption: the particularly Factor the specific
Caption: refactor we're going to do is our code
Caption: base is using moment.js for handling
Caption: date times
Caption: um moment.js was an absolutely fantastic
Caption: library for managing dates and times in
Caption: JavaScript when it was invented
Caption: 10 years ago but these days it's a
Caption: little bit heavyweight it's got it uses
Caption: mutable dates which sort of result in
Caption: bugs and the managers at the moment also
Caption: suggest that perhaps moment is not the
Caption: library to be using for you so we've
Caption: decided that we're going to switch to
Caption: date functions date FNS
Caption: um the specificative code is this
Caption: function here so it's a function which
Caption: formats a date takes a date if the date
Caption: is falsy it returns an empty string
Caption: otherwise it uses moment to convert the
Caption: date into a string in the format YY mm-d
Caption: all right so how are we going to
Caption: approach this I like to take sort of
Caption: three steps when I'm refactoring code so
Caption: the first is we're going to use tests to
Caption: determine what the current behavior is
Caption: then we're going to refactor the code
Caption: and then we're going to write our
Caption: feature and we're not going to do step
Caption: three today because I'm assuming you
Caption: were all already really great at writing
Caption: new features and we're just going to
Caption: concentrate on the first two steps
Caption: so the way that we're going to determine
Caption: the current behavior is using something
Caption: called characterization tests so
Caption: characterization tests come from a book
Caption: called working effectively with Legacy
Caption: code by Michael feathers if you do work
Caption: with Legacy code and you would like to
Caption: do it effectively this could be the book
Caption: for you
Caption: today we're just going to talk about
Caption: characterization tests
Caption: so characterization tests work a little
Caption: bit differently to the tests that you
Caption: would normally write when you're
Caption: building a feature so when you're
Caption: normally building a feature what you
Caption: would do is you would write a test with
Caption: some expectations
Caption: and then you write the code to make the
Caption: chest pass
Caption: assuming you're doing tdd I don't know
Caption: if you don't do tdd I guess you write
Caption: the test you write the code then you
Caption: write the test and you realize the
Caption: code's wrong you go back change the code
Caption: want to wait in just write the test
Caption: first I don't know
Caption: uh the characterization test though is
Caption: the other sort of way around I guess we
Caption: write a test with no expectations
Caption: and then we change the test until the
Caption: expect we change the expectations until
Caption: the test passes
Caption: so with feature tests the code changes
Caption: but the test stays the same with
Caption: characterization tests the test change
Caption: but the code stays the same the most
Caption: important thing is that we're only ever
Caption: changing one or the other right the
Caption: chasing the code or you're changing the
Caption: test never both at once
Caption: so what does that look like
Caption: Oh wrong way
Caption: uh here we have can everybody see that
Caption: because
Caption: yeah cool because I can't make it any
Caption: bigger than that I don't think so that's
Caption: lucky
Caption: um so we have our function here and
Caption: we're ready to write some tests for it
Caption: so we're going to describe our format
Caption: date function
Caption: now uh when I'm writing tests I like to
Caption: start with the very simplest case
Caption: so when we pass in nothing
Caption: and what's going to happen then
Caption: it's this is a characterization test
Caption: right so we don't know what it's going
Caption: to do I guess it's going to return
Caption: something it returns we don't know
Caption: and then we can write the actual test is
Caption: going to be expect
Caption: format date passed in nothing
Caption: 2B
Caption: and again we don't know
Caption: so what happens when we run the test we
Caption: can see that it fails because I guess
Caption: unsurprisingly
Caption: our date function doesn't return two
Caption: question marks
Caption: and we can see that what it does return
Caption: is an empty string so now we can update
Caption: our test and say it returns an empty
Caption: string
Caption: and write the test and now the test
Caption: passes
Caption: okay so then we can do that for our
Caption: other scenarios
Caption: so the next one is going to be when we
Caption: pass in uh date so the things that we
Caption: can pass into this function are sort of
Caption: determined by what you can pass into the
Caption: date Constructor so it's going to be a
Caption: date a string or a number
Caption: so we can pass in a date again we don't
Caption: know what it's going to return
Caption: um we'll pass a new date when I'm doing
Caption: this kind of thing I like to use dates
Caption: that are like have all the numbers below
Caption: 10 so that we can see where the padding
Caption: is going to end up
Caption: and we can see that it fails because it
Caption: returns its formatted string
Caption: so we can say it returns a formatted
Caption: date I guess
Caption: um cool so that's our date scenario and
Caption: then we have the strings so when we pass
Caption: in a so with strings there's kind of
Caption: three scenarios that we can have here
Caption: the first is that we can have a valid
Caption: date string
Caption: which is just going to look like
Caption: on date and I'm just going to like go
Caption: out in a Wildland here and say that this
Caption: Returns the same thing as the previous
Caption: one which it does
Caption: uh we can also pass in a string that
Caption: looks like a date but isn't
Caption: so an invalid pass in an invalidate
Caption: string so that's going to be something
Caption: like
Caption: the 31st of February
Caption: right so we don't know what that's going
Caption: to return
Caption: oops
Caption: and it turns out that it actually
Caption: formats the name for us and turns it
Caption: into a validate so again it returns a
Caption: formatted date
Caption: um apparently the 31st of February is
Caption: just the 3rd of March
Caption: makes sense I guess
Caption: um the other thing that we can pass in
Caption: is a string that just isn't a date at
Caption: all so
Caption: um it returns we don't know
Caption: um and a thing that isn't a date would
Caption: be like say a banana that's a completely
Caption: different kind of fruit
Caption: and what's that going to return
Caption: it is going to return the string invalid
Caption: date
Caption: so we can stick that in
Caption: expect it to be in by the date
Caption: excellent so that just leaves one more
Caption: scenario which is the case where we pass
Caption: in a number so again there's sort of
Caption: three number scenarios to consider
Caption: so when we pass in a
Caption: number so when we pass a number to the
Caption: date Constructor what we're passing in
Caption: is the number of milliseconds that have
Caption: passed since midnight on the first of
Caption: January 1970.
Caption: because of course it is
Caption: um
Caption: so we can get that value just by pulling
Caption: get time on an on a valid date
Caption: oh no it didn't work
Caption: because you have to put
Caption: oh it has to be a new date you have to
Caption: put all of the things in right you have
Caption: to actually make it a date you can't
Caption: just call get time on a string it
Caption: doesn't work
Caption: all right have all the brackets lined up
Caption: yes
Caption: okay so then the other two cases well
Caption: the first of the other two cases for a
Caption: number is if we pass in a negative
Caption: number
Caption: so in this case a negative number is
Caption: going to be one that was before the
Caption: first of January 1970.
Caption: I don't know if anybody can imagine a
Caption: date that long ago but
Caption: so that's just going to format that's
Caption: the way that you would expect
Caption: this um this kind of testing really gets
Caption: you to exercise those copy and paste
Caption: skills
Caption: exactly what we've been training for
Caption: um cool and then the last case that I
Caption: always used to like to test with numbers
Caption: is the number zero so when we pass in
Caption: zero
Caption: [Music]
Caption: um
Caption: it's going to return I don't know it
Caption: could be anything
Caption: um let's just pass in zero here
Caption: is this suspense really getting to
Caption: everyone
Caption: okay so this has failed and uh what it's
Caption: actually returned is an empty string all
Caption: right so this is a bug in our code
Caption: and the reason that this bug is there is
Caption: because we've got this test right at the
Caption: start that says if the date is full C
Caption: return empty string and zero is of
Caption: course a faulty value
Caption: um now we could go ahead and fix this
Caption: but like I said we try not to do that
Caption: when we're refactoring so instead we're
Caption: just going to document the fact that it
Caption: has this odd behavior
Caption: um in our test here now the reason that
Caption: I wouldn't fix this even though it would
Caption: be low risk um it's unlikely to break
Caption: anything if I fix it but there could be
Caption: people in our code base who are using
Caption: this function and who have written some
Caption: work around code and their workaround
Caption: code isn't going to make any sense once
Caption: we fix the bug so it would sort of just
Caption: be you know saving a bit of tech debt if
Caption: before we fix this bug we go and check
Caption: who else is using it so we'll write up a
Caption: jira card stick it on the board someone
Caption: else's problem for later
Caption: all right so that's all of the tests
Caption: that I would write for this
Caption: um we could keep going right it's
Caption: JavaScript so we could write a test but
Caption: what happens if you pass in a Boolean
Caption: and the result of that would actually be
Caption: kind of interesting because if we passed
Caption: in false we'd get into empty string but
Caption: if we passed in true we'd get invalid
Caption: date
Caption: um but I'm not going to do that for two
Caption: reasons first of all if this was
Caption: production code I just used typescript
Caption: the only reason I'm not using typescript
Caption: here is because it's real long and it
Caption: takes up too much space but yeah just
Caption: use typescript and the other reason is
Caption: that if if you're in your code base
Caption: you've got to the point where people are
Caption: passing booleans into date formatting
Caption: functions you've got bigger problems
Caption: um maybe deal with those
Caption: okay so now finally we are ready to do
Caption: our refactor
Caption: um so like I said we're going to use the
Caption: date FNS I feel like it's pronounced
Caption: date functions so
Caption: date Simmons
Caption: um format from date fins
Caption: um we're going to replace moment with
Caption: that so date functions the format
Caption: function is going to take a date
Caption: um just like moment did and it's going
Caption: to take a formatting string as a second
Caption: argument but it's a slightly different
Caption: Library so obviously it needs to use a
Caption: slightly different render formatting
Caption: string
Caption: because it wouldn't be JavaScript if we
Caption: didn't
Caption: and we can see that all of our tests
Caption: have passed except for one and the one
Caption: that's failed is the invalid string
Caption: you can see that there it is actually
Caption: throwing an error rather than returning
Caption: a string this is I would argue that this
Caption: is actually better Behavior but
Caption: like I said we're not trying to change
Caption: anything here we're just trying to keep
Caption: it all the same so we can just wrap this
Caption: in a try catch
Caption: and instead return
Caption: invalidate
Caption: is it capital letter
Caption: we'll find out
Caption: okay so that's our refactor done now you
Caption: might ask
Caption: was this really worth the effort right
Caption: this is like eight tests or something
Caption: for four lines of code and the answer to
Caption: that is
Caption: um just like with everything else in
Caption: software development it depends
Caption: uh if this function was used by like one
Caption: component and we always knew what was
Caption: going to go into it no of course I
Caption: wouldn't write all these tests so just
Caption: maybe write one Maybe cover it by the
Caption: component tests but if this was like the
Caption: formatting function that's used across
Caption: our entire code base
Caption: um so I made a change like this in a
Caption: real live code base recently and the the
Caption: functioning question was used in over
Caption: 300 places
Caption: um so to me seven eight tests for 300
Caption: usages that seems like pretty fair
Caption: um so yeah you're always gonna have to
Caption: make that that call for yourself and
Caption: work out
Caption: um just how many tests you need
Caption: okay so that's our characterization
Caption: tests work
Caption: um but the next question here is how do
Caption: we do this with jsx right jsx Works a
Caption: bit differently
Caption: um how is that going to work
Caption: so imagine we have this component here
Caption: it's a user info component it's going to
Caption: take in some user details and it's going
Caption: to print out the username was born on
Caption: and then the date formatted using our
Caption: format date function we just refactored
Caption: and also the day of the week right so
Caption: Bob was born on the 1st of first January
Caption: 19th 1990 which was a Monday
Caption: okay so how does that work so we have
Caption: our function here
Caption: we can describe use a info component
Caption: I'm going to say it
Caption: does something we don't know what
Caption: um so we can render the components
Caption: oh you've got to put all the brackets in
Caption: and the user is going to have a name
Caption: and a birthday
Caption: which we can see is the first of January
Caption: 1990.
Caption: um okay so how can we test this well the
Caption: first thing that we can do is we can
Caption: grab a reference to the container
Caption: so the when we render a component with a
Caption: test Library it gets rendered inside a
Caption: div and this container just points div
Caption: and then we can expect the text content
Caption: of that container to be something so we
Caption: can expect container
Caption: to have text content
Caption: and we don't know what it's going to be
Caption: so we can run our test and just like
Caption: with our standard JavaScript and the
Caption: test will fail but it tells us what to
Caption: expect
Caption: so we can pop that in there
Caption: and we can say that it renders the user
Caption: details
Caption: okay so that works great
Caption: um so it works well in cases where you
Caption: can just expect the text content to be a
Caption: specific thing if you've got large
Caption: complicated components it can get a bit
Caption: messy or if you're expecting different
Caption: kinds of behavior this perhaps isn't
Caption: going to be an easy way to do things
Caption: um so the good news is we do have
Caption: another tool available to us and that
Caption: tool is Snapshot tests
Caption: so snapshot tests if you're not familiar
Caption: with them and I'm guessing you are
Caption: because you seemed very happy about them
Caption: if you're not familiar with snapshot
Caption: test the way that they work is that when
Caption: you first run your test uh it generates
Caption: a snapshot and a snapshot is just a text
Caption: representation of your component and
Caption: then you go ahead and you make your
Caption: changes do whatever you need to do and
Caption: then when you run the test again it's
Caption: going to generate another snapshot and
Caption: it's going to compare the original one
Caption: with the new one and it's going to tell
Caption: you if they match or if they're
Caption: different
Caption: so let's try that
Caption: so here we can grab
Caption: the same test again
Caption: and the test that we're doing now is
Caption: we're just going to say that it matches
Caption: the snapshot
Caption: matches the snapshot
Caption: and then instead of testing whether it
Caption: has text content we can just say we can
Caption: expect it to match
Caption: snapshot
Caption: cool and now when we run this you see
Caption: the test passes you can see down the
Caption: bottom here one snapshot written and we
Caption: can see we've got this new folder here
Caption: called underscore underscore snapshots
Caption: underscore underscore
Caption: um and a file that has the same name as
Caption: our test file with DOT snap on the end
Caption: and then here you can see this is the
Caption: text representation of our component
Caption: that's been generated
Caption: back into our test and change something
Caption: so we say actually it turns out Bob was
Caption: born on the 2nd of January
Caption: we rerun the tests this time it fails it
Caption: says that the snapshot failed
Caption: and it shows us what the difference is
Caption: right it was rendering the first now
Caption: it's rendering the second it was around
Caption: during Monday now it's rendering Tuesday
Caption: now we know that that's actually correct
Caption: because we just changed value so we can
Caption: just hit U and update the snapshot and
Caption: now if we look at our snapshot you can
Caption: see it says Tuesday everything's happy
Caption: our test is great we know we haven't
Caption: broken anything
Caption: all right cool so snapshot tests are
Caption: very handy for this kind of thing but
Caption: they do have some limitations
Caption: so the first is that you lose a lot of
Caption: clarity when you're using a snapshot
Caption: test so imagine that we have this
Caption: component called increment that we're
Caption: testing we've got a snapshot test on the
Caption: left
Caption: um and all we do is we render the
Caption: component and then we expect it to match
Caption: the snapshot then we click a button and
Caption: we expect it to match the snapshot but
Caption: there's not really information there
Caption: about what's going on whereas if we
Caption: wrote a more traditional kind of test
Caption: what we get is we render the components
Caption: and then we expect it to have the number
Caption: four which just so happens to be that
Caption: same as that initial number that we
Caption: passed in so that's probably a good hint
Caption: that it's rendering out the number we
Caption: passed in then we click the button and
Caption: we expect it to have five
Caption: that we passed in
Caption: um so there's just a lot more sort of
Caption: details for the next person who's
Caption: looking at this component um in a more
Caption: traditional test
Caption: which can you know have pros and cons
Caption: um also snapshots don't render all of
Caption: the information about the component that
Caption: you might expect them to
Caption: imagine this component this is called
Caption: clicking a jig
Caption: click Imaging renders a text box onto
Caption: the screen when you click the text block
Caption: the checkbox it waits two seconds and
Caption: then it unchecks the checkbox I can't
Caption: imagine any situation where this would
Caption: be useful
Caption: but I wrote a test for it anyway
Caption: so this test is using snapshots it's
Caption: going to use effect timers because we
Caption: need to handle that two second delay
Caption: it's going to render our components
Caption: we're going to check the checkbox
Caption: we're going to check that it matches the
Caption: snapshot then we're going to wait two
Caption: seconds and then we're going to check
Caption: that it matches the snapshot again and
Caption: this test will pass
Caption: and this test will pass even if we take
Caption: out the weight for two seconds this test
Caption: will pass even if we break the component
Caption: so that it does do anything other than
Caption: render a checkbox
Caption: and the reason for that is that the
Caption: snapshot that gets rendered looks like
Caption: this
Caption: right it just says that there's an input
Caption: with a checkbox we've got no information
Caption: about the state of the checkbox in there
Caption: so it's just something to be careful of
Caption: I've run into similar issues with
Caption: snapshot tests where people had written
Caption: the snapshot
Caption: but the component loaded everything
Caption: asynchronously so there were all these
Caption: tests that all they were was like this
Caption: empty component and they weren't really
Caption: testing anything so just make sure that
Caption: your snapshots do contain the
Caption: information that you need them to
Caption: uh and the third limitation of snapshot
Caption: test is that you can't do tdd with them
Caption: um you might say I don't care I hate tdd
Caption: and that's fair enough
Caption: um or why do we care about tdd we're
Caption: refactoring at the moment and yes that's
Caption: true but we're refactoring remember
Caption: because we're intending to make change
Caption: and when we go to make that change the
Caption: snapshot tests aren't going to provide
Caption: us a good basis for those new feature
Caption: tests that we're going to write because
Caption: they do like that Clarity
Caption: um that's not to say that they don't
Caption: have a place
Caption: but it's probably worth considering
Caption: whether you need other kinds of tests as
Caption: well
Caption: okay snapshot tests are really excellent
Caption: in two situations though and the first
Caption: is when you have those big thousand line
Caption: components and you don't want to test
Caption: every single thing that's going on in
Caption: there Snapchat tests are excellent for
Caption: that
Caption: um and the other things I quite like
Caption: them is things that have got a lot of
Caption: presentation logic I don't know if
Caption: you've ever tried to write tests for a
Caption: table but they're a mess they're brittle
Caption: um and they don't really have that good
Caption: information in them right so this is a
Caption: good use to just use a snapshot test
Caption: instead it's simpler
Caption: okay so that brings us to the example
Caption: part of the whole thing so we're going
Caption: to look at an app called The Old Farm
Caption: Shop the older Farm Shopper the
Caption: important thing to remember here is that
Caption: letter at the start isn't a why
Caption: it's a thorn and it's pronounced so in
Caption: English we used to have this letter
Caption: Thorn then the Dutch or wherever it was
Caption: came along with their printing press and
Caption: they were like we don't have that letter
Caption: you don't get to have it anymore get rid
Caption: of it
Caption: um and this sort of looks like a lot of
Caption: why so people started using the letter Y
Caption: and then we ended up with this situation
Caption: but it is legitimately pronounced
Caption: it's important okay what does that look
Caption: like
Caption: this is our app we're selling farm
Caption: produce so you can buy plants uh you can
Caption: buy seed packets or seedlings and you
Caption: can pick different numbers don't buy
Caption: zero that would be weird
Caption: um and you're going to get sort of the
Caption: unit price in this little label here
Caption: um a subturtle a postage cost and a
Caption: total
Caption: and we're all all good with that it's
Caption: not too complicated cool
Caption: we've got some new requirements so we
Caption: want to add a third product type so we
Caption: want to add a new radio button that says
Caption: plants and we're going to show the unit
Caption: price and the total price for a plant
Caption: and we're going to calculate the postage
Caption: for a plant
Caption: um so it'll start looking like this now
Caption: we could in theory Implement these
Caption: requirements in the order that they were
Caption: given but we're not going to do that and
Caption: the reason for that is that if we
Caption: Implement that radio button first
Caption: then we've got to do the whole thing in
Caption: one go right we can't we can't stop
Caption: halfway whereas if we start with the
Caption: label we can just implement the change
Caption: we need for the label we could merge
Caption: that in it can go to production without
Caption: the rest of it and it'll be fine
Caption: um so it's sort of like a a cheating
Caption: feature flag I guess
Caption: um you could argue that this is a very
Caption: small change and you could just do it
Caption: all in one go and you're absolutely
Caption: right but like we've got time limits on
Caption: this talk and I'm not confident that I'm
Caption: going to get through the whole thing so
Caption: we're just going to start with the label
Caption: all right
Caption: now
Caption: here is the component
Caption: that
Caption: renders this page
Caption: it's not an amazing bit of work
Caption: but it's what we're working with so the
Caption: bit that we care about is this label
Caption: here except actually it's these two
Caption: labels here because we've just repeated
Caption: all this code
Caption: for both this is actually some
Caption: production code that's had its identity
Caption: changed to protect the innocent but this
Caption: this is real code in production
Caption: um so we don't want to write another
Caption: block like this right
Caption: um because we don't want to have more
Caption: repetitive code in there but also
Caption: because we can't write a test for
Caption: changing the label with the code all
Caption: gone down to one component like this
Caption: right we need to separate it out so
Caption: we're going to start by creating a new
Caption: label component that is separate to
Caption: everything else
Caption: before we do that though we're going to
Caption: write some component tests some
Caption: characterization tests
Caption: product
Caption: test dot GSX
Caption: ultimately write TSX because yes code
Caption: will be like oh it's a typescript
Caption: project I'm like actually it's not
Caption: um and it'll light lead to sadness
Caption: okay so we're going to test our product
Caption: component now we've got four scenarios
Caption: that we need to test not seven or eight
Caption: like the last one this is four so that's
Caption: going to be when we've got seed packets
Caption: selected and we've got no amount entered
Caption: when we've got seed packets and an
Caption: amount when we've got seedlings and no
Caption: amount and seedlings and an amount it's
Caption: going to be a lot of copying and pasting
Caption: I promise
Caption: so when seed
Caption: pockets is selected and no amount
Caption: is entered
Caption: it now this we've got a great big
Caption: component we only compare about care
Caption: about a small part of it this is an
Caption: excellent use for snapshot tests so it
Caption: matches the snapshot
Caption: all right so we need to grab a reference
Caption: to our container
Caption: no not screen we want to render the
Caption: component first
Caption: product
Caption: get that product which takes a prop code
Caption: product we're going to do because why
Caption: not
Caption: um we need to import that
Caption: import it
Caption: yeah all right
Caption: okay
Caption: no not that one
Caption: okay we got there no thanks to UBS code
Caption: and we want to grab a reference to that
Caption: radar button so that's going to be seed
Caption: packets
Caption: screened again
Caption: roll
Caption: and the role of a radio button is Radio
Caption: nice and easy but there's a couple of
Caption: radio buttons on the screen so let's
Caption: pass it in a name as well
Caption: um
Caption: that radio button
Caption: all right we need to import screen as
Caption: well
Caption: and that's it then we can expect our
Caption: container
Caption: to match the snapshot
Caption: and we do that we get a snapshot
Caption: generated and everything is great
Caption: okay so then we've got our second
Caption: scenario
Caption: which looks a lot like the first one
Caption: except an amount is entered
Caption: so we're going to grab a reference to
Caption: the well I think it's called number or
Caption: count or something I can't remember
Caption: and you screen dot get by roll now this
Caption: time the it's an input of type number so
Caption: as everybody knows the Aria role for
Caption: that is
Caption: yes spin button
Caption: there's only one on the screen so I
Caption: won't worry about a name
Caption: and we're going to pass in four say
Caption: all right now the snapshot written
Caption: excellent then we just need to do the
Caption: same thing all over again but with the
Caption: seedlings
Caption: so if we when
Caption: see links is selected and no amounts
Caption: then grab
Caption: seedlings I guess we should rename this
Caption: too
Caption: foreign
Caption: this is going to be seedlings
Caption: and kings
Caption: and seedlings
Caption: all right we're gonna run into the
Caption: snapshots oh something failed okay
Caption: the name
Caption: that this one ah well spotted especially
Caption: when it wasn't on the screen
Caption: all right so we got all the last
Caption: snapshots written everything looks great
Caption: except actually we have this warning
Caption: that's being thrown and if you've spent
Caption: much time writing says react you've
Caption: probably seen this morning before this
Caption: warning is a lie
Caption: um it has nothing to do with anything
Caption: being wrapped in the act and it's very
Caption: misleading but important
Caption: so what's good what what causes this
Caption: warning is when the component state is
Caption: or the component state is updated after
Caption: the test has finished so in our case
Caption: we change the number
Caption: of things which changes uh
Caption: which calls this state which calls this
Caption: use effect which calls this calculate
Caption: postage function
Caption: and when it's seed Lings and it's not
Caption: zero it gets down to this postage
Caption: calculation which causes asynchronous
Caption: function so we call this asynchronous
Caption: function it goes off and does its
Caption: asynchronous thing then our test
Caption: finishes then the asynchronous function
Caption: returns then the state is updated and
Caption: then react is like oh my God I tell you
Caption: lies about Act
Caption: um so that's what's causing the warning
Caption: like it's a little a legitimate warning
Caption: it's just that it's not very hopefully
Caption: word worded
Caption: um so the way that we can deal with that
Caption: is we can just kind of wait for
Caption: um it not to be zero
Caption: so we look at the snapshot for instance
Caption: we can see
Caption: uh
Caption: postage total no the next one
Caption: we can see that the c c no not seed
Caption: packets oh my God
Caption: when ceilings are selected on an amount
Caption: that's the one
Caption: okay we can see the number is eight but
Caption: the postage is zero so we can say
Caption: the postage equals
Caption: Green Dot get by text
Caption: um let's just do a quick regex because
Caption: nothing ever goes wrong when you do that
Caption: and then we can uh await
Caption: I wait for
Caption: um
Caption: and then expect
Caption: postage
Caption: but to have text content and I whatever
Caption: it's going to be we can just run the
Caption: test and see
Caption: oh you have to make it an async function
Caption: all the time
Caption: okay so we can see the postage is
Caption: actually 32 dollars
Caption: so we can change that
Caption: and this is a slightly hacky way of
Caption: doing this but you get get the idea so
Caption: now snapshots failed because instead of
Caption: zero dollars it's thirty two dollars
Caption: instead of 32 the total is now 64.
Caption: that's what we're expecting so let's
Caption: update snapshot
Caption: okay so now we've got our
Caption: characterization tests we can do our
Caption: refactor
Caption: now I'm just going to write the new
Caption: component sort of inside here because
Caption: it's going to make it easier to copy and
Caption: paste
Caption: um but in the real world you'd probably
Caption: put it in its own file and it could have
Caption: its own like independent life and be
Caption: happy
Caption: so we're just going to return the same
Caption: value we have here now in this case you
Caption: can see we've got two bits of text that
Caption: are essentially the same thing so rather
Caption: than having it all repeated
Caption: let's kind of parameterize it so we can
Caption: pull out those names and we can say seed
Caption: packets is going to be
Caption: seed packets
Caption: and seedlings
Caption: is going to be seedlings
Caption: then we can get rid of all of
Caption: that and we can just say number of
Caption: names
Caption: product type
Caption: oh don't put a dollar sign there you're
Caption: out of control
Caption: um and again here instead of this being
Caption: seed packets it can just be
Caption: product type
Caption: oh then we need to pass in product type
Caption: I'm going to use passing count
Caption: because we're using that here
Caption: and then we just change this one more
Caption: product type
Caption: and then we get rid of all of that we
Caption: put one more closing bracket we wish
Caption: we'd set up prettier so that it
Caption: reformatted everything
Caption: um oh and it doesn't do it
Caption: okay so now we can replace all of this
Caption: with our new label component
Caption: which takes a product type
Caption: and account
Caption: and we run our snapshot test again they
Caption: all fail but the only reason they fail
Caption: is that the the white space has changed
Caption: because we've added in all of those
Caption: interpolations
Caption: so we can just update that and it's fine
Caption: cool so this is looking pretty good
Caption: except there is one more little
Caption: dependency in here that's not super
Caption: obvious but this ID on this input needs
Caption: to match the html4 on this label
Caption: um and we like we need those two things
Caption: to be the same there's a couple of ways
Caption: we could deal with that we could just
Caption: hope that no one changes it
Caption: we could pass the ID into the label
Caption: um which could work but what I would
Caption: suggest that we do is we kind of accept
Caption: that these two this label and this input
Caption: are very tightly coupled and probably
Caption: the best thing to do is just to put them
Caption: all into the component together
Caption: so now instead of this being a label
Caption: component it's going to be a number
Caption: input component
Caption: and we're going to wrap it in div
Caption: get rid of that bracket
Caption: and paste all of that in
Caption: and a closing div oh don't you wish I'd
Caption: installed prettier
Caption: okay so this is now just missing this
Caption: handle count change
Caption: handle count changer is kind of a weird
Caption: name for a prop so let's just put it on
Caption: change
Caption: all right so now that's all good we can
Caption: go back up here we can change this to
Caption: our number input we can pass it the on
Caption: change
Caption: um and then we can get rid of all of
Caption: this this is my more favorite thing than
Caption: refactoring is the leading code so thank
Caption: you rejoy
Caption: um and our Snapchat test will pass so
Caption: that's all good everything
Caption: is great
Caption: um and now we're actually ready to write
Caption: our feature
Caption: um except one small thing before I did
Caption: that like I said I don't like having
Caption: snapshot tests as the basis for my
Caption: feature tests we could go with that but
Caption: what we have here is sort of snapshot
Caption: test to cover the whole product
Caption: component we don't have any tests that
Caption: are specific to our new number input
Caption: component so I would start by actually
Caption: replicating our snapshot tests into like
Caption: a specific set of tests for the number
Caption: the number input I'm not going to make
Caption: you watch me do that though
Caption: um I have a set of tests here already
Caption: um you can see they're the same
Caption: scenarios that we wrote before for the
Caption: two different types and the amount and
Caption: no amount and then one additional test
Caption: which checks that the on change Handler
Caption: because now that these two things are
Caption: separated up we just need to test that
Caption: integration is working
Caption: um now you might argue that this is a
Caption: waste of time we already had these tests
Caption: I don't need to do all this and I look I
Caption: don't know how busy you are but I did
Caption: time myself
Caption: those copy and paste fingers going fast
Caption: okay so now we've got these tests here
Caption: we're ready to write the test for our
Caption: new feature
Caption: which honestly is going to look just
Caption: like the existing ones except we're
Caption: going to replace
Caption: um everything with plants so when the
Caption: product type is plants
Caption: um it's going to be plants
Caption: it's going to show the number of
Caption: plants and plants as I'm sure you all
Caption: remember from the spec cost 15 each
Caption: and again we're going to make the plants
Caption: we're going to have 12 of them we're
Caption: going to make plants and 15 times 12 is
Caption: of course
Caption: anyone no 180 yeah
Caption: we run these tests they fail because we
Caption: haven't written that code
Caption: but now when we actually go to write our
Caption: feature it's going to be so easy okay
Caption: all we need to do is add plants
Caption: to our little names here
Caption: and then there's a little config file
Caption: here that has the prices in it and we
Caption: can add the plants here
Caption: and that's also a pass so how fast was
Caption: that after we did that refactoring so
Caption: this component is now super easy to
Caption: change it's super easy to work with
Caption: okay so what did we learn today some
Caption: important things we learned to think
Caption: about when we should refactor because
Caption: even though it's fun sometimes we maybe
Caption: shouldn't do it we've learned how to
Caption: write characterization tests to ensure
Caption: our refactors are safe
Caption: we've learned about substantial tests
Caption: and how we can use those to write
Caption: refactoring tests and most importantly
Caption: of all we learned that this thing that
Caption: looks like these actually pronounced the
Caption: and that's what a thorn sort of looks
Caption: like normally
Caption: all right I've been Aaron Zimmer if you
Caption: would like to see the code other slides
Caption: are available here
Caption: um
Caption: don't know why Firefox hates rendering
Caption: the peas in this font but some reason uh
Caption: the examples are a funky tub with a
Caption: completed example as well
Caption: um and thank you all very much
Caption: [Applause]
Caption: [Music]